README.md, before:

# Observe+

Observe+ is a library based on [Object.observe/Array.observe](http://wiki.ecmascript.org/doku.php?id=harmony:observe) that adds the following features:

- fine-grained observe on individual properties/index/event types
- pause/resume to do bach updates on the model before publishing all the events
- observe once to remove the event listener after an event has fired
- disposable pattern for removing listeners

## What is Object.observe?

http://addyosmani.com/blog/the-future-of-data-binding-is-object-observe/

### Compatible browsers:

Check Kangax' ES compat table to see where Object.observe (ES7) is available : http://kangax.github.io/es5-compat-table/es6/#Object.observe_%28part_of_b_ES7_/b_%29

## Installation:

In node.js or if you use browserify (else, you should!)

```bash
npm install observe-plus
```

In the browser:

```bash
bower install observe-plus
```

```html
	<script src="bower_components/observe-plus/observe-plus.js"></script>
	<!-- or, for the minified version -->
	<script src="bower_components/observe-plus/observe-plus.min.js"></script>
```

## API

```js
var observePlus = require("observe-plus");
```

### Observing objects:

Object.observe() allows to add a listener to changes happening on an object. Usually, we are interested in two types of events:

- When a property is added to/updated or removed from the object.
- When a specific property changes

observePlus.observeObject allows to listen to these two types.

```js
var plainObject = {};

var observer = observePlus.observeObject(plainObject);
```

Observing generic events on the object such as property added, updated, removed:

```js
// Listening to properties being added to the object
var dispose = observer.observe("new", function (publishedEvent) {
	// When a property is be added to the object,
	// this callback will be called with this === scope
	// and publishedEvent as the original event such as, for example:
	publishedEvent.name == "newProperty";
	publishedEvent.object === plainObject;
	publishedEvent.type == "new";
}, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "new"
plainObject.newProperty = "value";

// This will add a listener to properties being updated
observer.observe("update", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This listener will be called only once and then disposed of
observer.observeOnce("update", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "update"
plainObject.newProperty = "newValue";

// This listener will be called when a property is deleted from the object
observer.observe("delete", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This listener will be called only once and then disposed of
observer.observeOnce("delete", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "delete"
delete plainObject.newProperty;

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

Observing changes on specific properties of the object:

```js
// Listening to changes on the "newProperty" property
var dispose = observer.observe("newProperty", function (publishedEvent) {
	// When newProperty will be added/modified or removed,
	// this callback will be called with this === scope
	// and publishedEvent as the original event such as, for example:
	publishedEvent.name === "newProperty";
	publishedEvent.object === plainObject;
	publishedEvent.type === "new";
}, scope /* optional */);

// Or similar, but the listener will be called only once:
observer.observeOnce("newProperty", function (publishedEvent) { ...}, scope /* optional */);

// This will call the callback with the "new" event
plainObject.newProperty = "value";

// This will call the callback with the "update" event
plainObject.newProperty = "newValue";

// This will call the callback with the "delete" event
delete plainObject.newProperty;

// This will not call the callback as it's not listening to events on anotherProperty
plainObject.anotherProperty = "value";

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

Stop observing changes:

```js
observer.unobserve();
```

### Observing arrays:

As for arrays, we may be interested in:

- Listening to changes on the array such as item added/removed (splice) or updated (update)
- Listening to changes on a specific index of the array

```js
var plainArray = [];

var observer = observePlus.observeArray(plainArray);
```

```js
// Listening to changes on the array such as item added or removed
var dispose = observer.observe("splice", function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// Listening to splice events only once:
observer.observeOnce("splice", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "splice"
plainArray.push("item");

// Listening to updates on the items
observer.observe("update", function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "update"
plainArray[0] = "newValue";

// This will again trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "splice"
plainArray.pop();

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

You can also listen to a indexes directly:

```js
var dispose = observer.observeIndex(10, function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// Or to listen index 10 only once:
observer.observerIndexOnce(10, function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to changes on item 10:
plainArray[10] = "item";

// Removing the listener
dispose();
```

Trick: if you use Object.observe on the array, you can also listen to "length" changes as it's a property of the object

```js
var observer = observePlus.observeObject(plainArray);

observer.observe("length", function (publishedEvent) {

}, scope /* optional */);
```

Stop observing changes:

```js
observer.unobserve();
```

### Pause/resume:

The events are fired asynchronously, on the next turn of the event loop. This should allow for rendering to be delayed until all computation is done. If you still want to delay the trigger further, you can pause the observer and resume it later, by using the pause/resume API:

```js
// Pause the observer
observer.pause();

// do something on object/array;

// resume the observer, which will trigger all the listeners with the events:
observer.resume();
```

Note that resume() will also trigger the callbacks asynchronously, to be consistent with Object.observe and Array.observe.

## License:

MIT

Commit message:

update README for how to enable harmony features

README.md, after:

# Observe+

Observe+ is a library based on [Object.observe/Array.observe](http://wiki.ecmascript.org/doku.php?id=harmony:observe) that adds the following features:

- fine-grained observe on individual properties/index/event types
- pause/resume to do bach updates on the model before publishing all the events
- observe once to remove the event listener after an event has fired
- disposable pattern for removing listeners

## What is Object.observe?

http://addyosmani.com/blog/the-future-of-data-binding-is-object-observe/

### Compatible browsers:

Check Kangax' ES compat table to see where Object.observe (ES7) is available : http://kangax.github.io/es5-compat-table/es6/#Object.observe_%28part_of_b_ES7_/b_%29

## Installation:

In node.js or if you use browserify (else, you should!)

```bash
npm install observe-plus
```

In the browser:

```bash
bower install observe-plus
```

```html
	<script src="bower_components/observe-plus/observe-plus.js"></script>
	<!-- or, for the minified version -->
	<script src="bower_components/observe-plus/observe-plus.min.js"></script>
```

## How to use?

Remember that you need to have Object.observe and Array.observe in order for observe-plus to work:

### In node.js

Run with the --harmony option:

```bash
node --harmony myscript.js
```

### In Chrome

enable the harmony flag, navigate to [chrome://flags/#enable-javascript-harmony](chrome://flags/#enable-javascript-harmony)

## API

```js
var observePlus = require("observe-plus");
```

### Observing objects:

Object.observe() allows to add a listener to changes happening on an object. Usually, we are interested in two types of events:

- When a property is added to/updated or removed from the object.
- When a specific property changes

observePlus.observeObject allows to listen to these two types.

```js
var plainObject = {};

var observer = observePlus.observeObject(plainObject);
```

Observing generic events on the object such as property added, updated, removed:

```js
// Listening to properties being added to the object
var dispose = observer.observe("new", function (publishedEvent) {
	// When a property is be added to the object,
	// this callback will be called with this === scope
	// and publishedEvent as the original event such as, for example:
	publishedEvent.name == "newProperty";
	publishedEvent.object === plainObject;
	publishedEvent.type == "new";
}, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "new"
plainObject.newProperty = "value";

// This will add a listener to properties being updated
observer.observe("update", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This listener will be called only once and then disposed of
observer.observeOnce("update", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "update"
plainObject.newProperty = "newValue";

// This listener will be called when a property is deleted from the object
observer.observe("delete", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This listener will be called only once and then disposed of
observer.observeOnce("delete", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger the listeners that have subscribed to "delete"
delete plainObject.newProperty;

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

Observing changes on specific properties of the object:

```js
// Listening to changes on the "newProperty" property
var dispose = observer.observe("newProperty", function (publishedEvent) {
	// When newProperty will be added/modified or removed,
	// this callback will be called with this === scope
	// and publishedEvent as the original event such as, for example:
	publishedEvent.name === "newProperty";
	publishedEvent.object === plainObject;
	publishedEvent.type === "new";
}, scope /* optional */);

// Or similar, but the listener will be called only once:
observer.observeOnce("newProperty", function (publishedEvent) { ...}, scope /* optional */);

// This will call the callback with the "new" event
plainObject.newProperty = "value";

// This will call the callback with the "update" event
plainObject.newProperty = "newValue";

// This will call the callback with the "delete" event
delete plainObject.newProperty;

// This will not call the callback as it's not listening to events on anotherProperty
plainObject.anotherProperty = "value";

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

Stop observing changes:

```js
observer.unobserve();
```

### Observing arrays:

As for arrays, we may be interested in:

- Listening to changes on the array such as item added/removed (splice) or updated (update)
- Listening to changes on a specific index of the array

```js
var plainArray = [];

var observer = observePlus.observeArray(plainArray);
```

```js
// Listening to changes on the array such as item added or removed
var dispose = observer.observe("splice", function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// Listening to splice events only once:
observer.observeOnce("splice", function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "splice"
plainArray.push("item");

// Listening to updates on the items
observer.observe("update", function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "update"
plainArray[0] = "newValue";

// This will again trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to "splice"
plainArray.pop();

// When you're done with a listener, you can remove it by calling the dispose function that is the observe() method returned.
// All the observe methods return a dispose function.
dispose();
```

You can also listen to a indexes directly:

```js
var dispose = observer.observeIndex(10, function (publishedEvent) {
	//
}, scope /* optional */);

// Or to listen index 10 only once:
observer.observerIndexOnce(10, function (publishedEvent) { ... }, scope /* optional */);

// This will trigger all the listeners that have subscribed to changes on item 10:
plainArray[10] = "item";

// Removing the listener
dispose();
```

Trick: if you use Object.observe on the array, you can also listen to "length" changes as it's a property of the object

```js
var observer = observePlus.observeObject(plainArray);

observer.observe("length", function (publishedEvent) {

}, scope /* optional */);
```

Stop observing changes:

```js
observer.unobserve();
```

### Pause/resume:

The events are fired asynchronously, on the next turn of the event loop. This should allow for rendering to be delayed until all computation is done. If you still want to delay the trigger further, you can pause the observer and resume it later, by using the pause/resume API:

```js
// Pause the observer
observer.pause();

// do something on object/array;

// resume the observer, which will trigger all the listeners with the events:
observer.resume();
```

Note that resume() will also trigger the callbacks asynchronously, to be consistent with Object.observe and Array.observe.

## License:

MIT
